Jehovah warned that “in the last days,”
there would be
“critical times hard to deal with.”
There would be “food shortages,”
“pestilences,”
“earthquakes in one place after another,”
and other “fearful sights.”
We also contend with wildfires,
volcanic eruptions, destructive storms,
and man-made disasters,
as well as an increase of lawlessness,
civil unrest, and war.
No matter where we live, we will
likely be affected by some form of disaster,
whether natural or man-made.
How can we be prepared?
First, we can prepare spiritually.
Isaiah 30:15 says:
“Your strength will be in keeping calm
and showing trust.”
So we need to build and maintain
a close relationship with Jehovah
and learn to trust in him now.
We do not expect divine intervention.
But when we pray during times of distress,
his powerful holy spirit
can bring Bible passages back to mind
to keep us calm and give us wisdom
to make good decisions.
Second, we can prepare physically
by maintaining a go bag.
Our go bag could include items
such as first-aid supplies,
bottled water, nonperishable food,
a Bible, and other necessary items.
If possible, each household should also have
a reasonable reserve
of basic supplies at home
in case it is necessary to shelter in place
for an extended period of time.
Check what government authorities
recommend for your community.
Also, we shouldn’t forget
to update the elders
with our latest contact information.
If we don’t do so,
valuable time could be lost in a disaster.
Additionally, during family worship,
our family could review
the types of disasters that could happen.
Remember, emergencies
like terrorist attacks and unrest
can occur anywhere and without warning.
So consider what could be done
in each situation,
such as where to meet
and how to contact the elders.
And third, we can prepare to help others
when they’re experiencing a disaster.
So, what can we expect
if a disaster occurs locally?
If advance warning of a disaster is given,
field service group overseers will make sure
that everyone in their group
is in a safe location.
Immediately after a disaster occurs,
each field service group overseer
will contact everyone in his group
to learn of their needs.
It could take time
to organize relief assistance,
especially if supplies are limited.
So it’s vital that each of us
takes steps to prepare,
follows government warnings,
and keeps the elders informed
of our circumstances.
Philippians 2:4 states:
“Look out . . . for the interests of others.”
When we are prepared,
more attention can be given
to those with the most critical needs
and we may be able to help others
in our own congregation and nearby,
even if we’re affected.
For example, in some circumstances,
brothers may need
a place to stay temporarily.
Perhaps we could open our home
and help them.
Or they might need food or basic supplies.
We could share what we have.
In other situations,
our brothers may need help cleaning
or repairing their home
when it’s safe to do so.
But what if a disaster occurs
in another area?
Should we travel there to help?
If help is needed,
the branch office will assign brothers
to coordinate and assist with relief efforts.
So the best time to make yourself available
is now,
before a disaster occurs.
Ask your local elders for an application.
Then when there is a need,
the branch office will know
you’re willing to assist.
And do not forget the power of prayer.
By offering prayers in their behalf,
by volunteering to assist
with disaster relief efforts,
and by contributing donations
to the worldwide work,
we can assist our brothers.
No, we can’t avoid all disasters,
whether natural or man-made.
But when we follow the direction
from Jehovah’s Word and organization,
our obedience glorifies Jehovah.
If we prepare spiritually
and physically
and prepare to help others,
we can take comfort in knowing
that Jehovah will bless our efforts
to be prepared for a disaster.